And so in each case, the students then live right by
the buildings themselves. Right. And they have
most of their informal student life in their
college, not all of it alone. The cafeteria, the
lounges, the ice cream parlors, the bookstore,
and so forth.
The sundry store.
One thing that hasn't worked out is the ratio of
undergraduates to graduates. mostly
undergraduates, only about 1,500 graduates.
That's including the medical school inscription
institution.
And I don't know quite why that is, but
it has...
Well, certainly one powerful reason is the lack of
academic jobs.
Another is that They just don't have money to
support them. Traditionally, you should support
all your graduate students. They don't have
enough teaching assistantships or enough
research assistantships to support any more
graduate
students. But maybe there's something more
fundamental. I won't even back it. I've been away
12 years. I've only been back a few months. And I'm a
slow learner. And I don't really understand
what's happening.
The other thing which I guess bothers me
is that the collegiate spirit, the collegial
spirit which is so characteristic of Harvard,
where the tradition is that all faculty members
help each other out, doesn't exist here.
faculty members do help each other out in the sense
that if I have to go on a trip, somebody will take my
class.
Sort of like a mother cow, take care of other
people's, other cows' calves, as long as he
doesn't have to nurse
them. But the life of the, the intellectual life
of intellectual interchange between different
parts of the university that I don't think exists
very much.
It's more like Berkeley than it is like Harvard.
I don't know why that is. There are some faculty
members who are enthusiastic about increasing
and improving intellectual and social
interchange. These are dedicated, idealistic
type guys. And they include the chancellor. The
chancellor himself doesn't, he's a pretty remote
figure.
And I think if I were a chancellor, I'd spend
at least 50% of my time wandering around the
universe and talking to people, as I used to do when
I was director of scripts. which I learned from
Columbus Islin, who preceded me as director of
Woods Hole by about 10 years.
I more or less patterned myself after him in terms
of how I behaved with members of the staff. Always
trying to find out what people were doing and why
they were doing it and being more interested in
what they were doing than anybody else. And I was
talking to them that they were the chief guy in the
world. It was very important to me. Yeah. Do you
think Scripps has grown too large?
I don't know. What do you think? I don't know. I just
wonder. I wonder if there's an optimal place where
an institution or a university becomes so large
it's difficult to have an interchange of ideas.
Well, I'll tell you one thing. This is
discouraging to me. I was reading about it in the
minutes of the script staff meeting. When I was a
graduate student, it was traditional that we had a
staff lunch once a week, where somebody would talk
about his research.
And Sperger kept that up, and I kept it up.
And I always went myself.
And sort of made it quite clear that this is what
everybody's supposed to do. This custom has gone
into abeyance the last four or five years. They
tried to revive it this year. And
as a result of a questionnaire they sent around to
the staff, about 100 people responded saying they
wanted to have it discontinued. But only 10 to 50 of
them ever showed up. So they've abandoned it
again, which suggests to me that the place is too
large. Why did you stop teaching full time? Well,
I'm 67 years old. I'm not teaching full time. But
I'm teaching in two places. You mean stop teaching
full-time? Well, I all of a sudden see you drifting
more and more into administration. This is the
sort of picture, maybe an erroneous picture. You
mean long ago? Long ago, while you were at Scripps.
I see you all of a sudden director of two
institutions almost simultaneously, Scripps
and the University of California at La Jolla. And I
wondered if that didn't eliminate you teaching,
and what was your reaction to that personally when
that occurred?
I didn't mind it, but I was creating something. I'm
a good guy at beginning
things, not necessarily a good guy at managing
them after they've gone. And what I was doing was
transforming the Scripps Institution from a
small, locally-oriented
laboratory to a world-exploring
multidisciplinary
activity. And we ended up in 12 shifts when I was,
the last year I was director. Would you estimate
that to be your major accomplishment while
director of scripts, changing scripts from a
localized institution to, may I call it a
multiversity, that's the wrong choice of words. I
wouldn't use that word at all. It became a world
institution, concerned with the whole ocean, not
just with the water that all of a sudden fell. One
way, if I had an epitaph as director of Scripps, I
would say, he sent Scripps to sea.
Sort of like, I did the same thing at Scripps in
some, I hope you won't think this is an egocentric
comparison, but it illustrates what I'm talking
about. I did the same thing at Scripps that Prince
Henry the Navigator did for Portugal. I made it a
world country instead of a little tit on the
Iberian Peninsula. I might add you chose the same
words too, age of exploration, when you described
what you thought the activities ought to be in the
periods of the 17th century vis-a-vis the 1950s.
Was that deliberate? How's that? I'm sorry. Well,
I'm saying that you and Prince Henry, in effect,
chose the same words. He says age of exploration
when he talks about his 17th century. And you say
age of exploration, in effect, when you talk about
about your century. You're talking about Prince
Henry the Navigator? No, I'm talking about when
you refer back to the time that began with Prince
Henry and the time that closes on down through the
17th century. You speak of that in terms of age of
exploration. Right, right. And I'm saying in the
decades of the 50s and the early 60s, you choose to
use the same word. That's right. Was that
deliberate? That's right. And if you ask a guy like
Walter Monk, what kind of a guy I am, let's say I'm
essentially an adventurer. Much like these guys
that sailed for Prince Henry. He also calls you a
naturalist. Yeah. At least in some of the things I
read. Which I assume is the same sort of thing in
this sense. Sort of a common interest about the
world. Well, what he means by that is that
I was interested in and effective at describing
things. Not very good at at experimentation or
analysis. I didn't have the mathematical
background or the experimental skill.
But when it comes to knowing something about a lot
of different things and being able to put it
together and asking piercing
or penetrating questions, that's always been my
special knack. And I've helped him a lot by, for
example, by asking him questions about why he's
doing what he's doing. What does it mean?
Do you have any opinion on the relatively large
crop of graduate students who are now appearing
from the oceanographic institutions of the
country? You think there are too many coming out?
Too few? Is this what you visioned for Scripps?
Well, I guess I'm worried about what happened to
the astronomers. You know, there are about 10
astronomers for every job in astronomy.
What are all these guys gonna do?
I don't know. I don't either. Sometimes I'll tell
you what historians do. Is a specialized school
such as Texas A&M University a good way to produce
society's professionals? Or should the school be
more generalized in your concept and what you
visualized it to be?
Well, I think that,
as I said, the basic purpose of a university
education should be to learn how to learn. And
that's not as simple as it sounds. It means in the
first place you need to learn the language. I don't
mean French and German. I mean the language of your
subject. You need to believe that you can find out
something that hasn't been found out before. And
you need to think it's fun to find out something
that hasn't been found out before. None of those
say much about Brick. Principle that you could do
all three of those things and study nothing but
physics.
The reason, but that's...
only part of it. Another aspect of learning how to
learn is to be interested in things.
And the way you get interested is to know something
about them. At least that's the way I get
interested. And therefore, I think people need to
know something about a lot of different things and
be interested. Enough so they're interested. Not
necessarily enough so they're experts, but
enough so I think it would be nice to know more.
I'd like for the next series of questions
I should like for the next series of questions to
concern theories of international cooperation.
You've done much in terms of this spirit of
international cooperation. Would you comment,
please, upon some of these and what you feel about
them? What about NORPAC? How did it develop your
attitude towards it, and do you think
international cooperation works? Well, NORPAC
was an idea of Joe Reed, who was a descriptive
physical oceanographer. And
his idea was that we ought to get a kind of a
photograph of the North Pacific Ocean, the water
masses of the Pacific Ocean during one season and
one year.
And in order to do that, we had to get a lot of ships
out simultaneously.
And so we went to Japan.
I went to Japan, I guess.
I think somebody from the Office of Naval Research
went with me. I'm not quite sure about that. I don't
quite remember that. And worked with the head of
the hydrographic office.
in Japan, a nice little old man
whose name slips my mind for the moment,
and also with the fisheries people there. And they
arranged to have several of their ships take part
in it. And the Canadian Oceanographic Group in
Nanaimo
under Tully took part also.
And the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries ships in
Hawaii.
And
we were able to produce them as a kind of an atlas of
the North Pacific for that one time. That's
something that meteorologists do all the time.
They have synoptic weather maps. But it's very
difficult in oceanography because
it's so much more difficult to make the
observation. You can make a map of ocean surface
temperature, more or less, on merchant ships, at
least along the routes that merchant ships
travel.
But in many areas of the ocean where there aren't
any merchant And of course, they never stop and
never take observation from the surface.
I guess this was the first
international operation that we were engaged in
here at Scripps.
There had been quite a bit of the same kind of thing
in the Atlantic, sponsored by the International
Council for the Exploration of the Sea. And the man
I told you about yesterday, Bjorn Helen Hansen,
had been involved with several of these
multi-ship expeditions.
Then I guess the biggest cooperative venture of
this kind was the International Indian Ocean
Expedition,
which was a project first proposed and out and
detailed by the Scientific Committee of Oceanic
Research.
which was appointed by the International Council
of Scientific Unions in 1957, I think it was.
This is called SCOR, and it still exists, S-C-O-R.
And the idea, I think the idea came first from
Columbus Islam.
meeting at Woods Hole, first meeting, organizing
meeting for SCORE and I was the president of it. I
was the first president of SCORE and presided at
this organizing meeting and I sort of picked the, I
did pick the members of SCORE and decided that
Columbus would represent the International
Geographical Union and George Deacon, the
International Union of Geology and Geophysics
and so forth. Then the executive board of ICSI had
been appointed to these people as representing
the different unions.
I guess the unions had to be consulted, too. There
was a man named Bernicke from Germany who was the
head of the German, civilian head of the German
Hydrographic Office. It was all civilian in those
days.
In Germany, there was a
several European countries. And of course,
eventually, we had representatives from
Australia, a man from Australia, George
Humphreys,
a man from Japan. It was really an international
committee, but representing not countries, but
unions.
And there was a Russian member, Vladimir Vladimir
Korg,
who was their great exploring type
oceanographer, physical oceanographer.
I think Zenkevich was a member, too. Well, it's
easy to find out who the members were, and I'm not
sure that I I can give you anywhere near a complete
list of the first.
Anyhow, Columbus proposed at this meeting in
Woods Hole that one large area which needed a lot
more field work was the Indian Ocean.
It was the unknown ocean in 1957 and the way that the
Atlantic and the Pacific were not. And we all took
this up with great, great enthusiasm.
And we appointed a coordinator, not an
oceanographer at all, but a
social scientist who had worked for the Navy for
several years as a project officer for the
experimental
testing unit of the Navy. It was
a fleet task force that tested equipment. He'd
been one of their project officers. His name was
Bob Snyder.
He traveled around the world.
drumming up enthusiasm for this big operation
that we proposed in the Indian Ocean, getting
ships and ship plans. And altogether, they ended
up with about 20 ships going to the Indian Ocean,
doing different things.
Everybody telling everybody else what they were
doing and putting together where they could. We
never had the kind of thing that we had at NORPAC,
where everybody was out there simultaneously so
we could get a picture of a physical oceanography.
Rather, it was a series of
studies of particular phenomena. For example,
Johnny Knauss went out with his ship from Rhode
Island and got A couple of others, one of our ships
involved, and two of our ships, I guess. A study of
whether there was an equatorial undercurrent,
like the Cromwell current sitting in the Indian
Ocean. And the interesting thing about the
circulation of the Indian Ocean is that it
reverses itself every year. Part of the time, the
currents go west. Part of the time, the currents go
east because of the monsoon. the wind-driven
current.
And under those circumstances, Johnny's
question was whether you would get an equatorial
undercurrent.
Warren Wooster and Henry Stommel and the English
group concentrated on the Somali current, which
was a very fast, big current on the northeast side
of Africa. It's like the Gulf Stream,
except even stronger and bigger because it's in
low latitude. And my car, the Oldsport, is quite
weak.
And Bob Fisher and Bruce Hazen
Quite a few other people concentrated on the
bottom, on the geology and geophysics,
particularly on the bottom topography and the
bottom sediments and geophysical measurements
of the thickness of sediments and the depth
through the moho and things like that.
So we ended up Ten years later, or five, whatever
the time when the most intense work was being done,
I guess the early 60s was the most intense, the
concentration of ships there. Australians were
involved and the Russians were very involved. And
we gradually built up quite a bit of cooperation
with the Russians. Particularly with the
geophysicist, Udinsev. U-D-I-N-T-S-E-V.
U-D-I-N-T-S-E-V.
We ended up at the end of about five or six years with
two results. One, that we knew an awful lot more
about the Indian Ocean than we did before. And the
other is that there were a lot of oceanographers
interested in it. but they've been going there
ever since. Is the approach to oceanography quite
similar in all these countries? I know this is a
difficult question to answer, but if you, for
example, had to compare Australian, Russian, and
American oceanographers, do you use about the
same techniques, about the same tools, ask about
the same sorts of questions?
Well, the Russians and the Americans, Not the
Australians.
The Russians and the three major oceanographic
institutions in this country with all the modern
scripts are big, multi-disciplinary,
multi-purpose, multi-objective,
heavily financed institutions. And they send
their ships out on these complex expeditions
where they try to do as many things all at once.
That's also the technique the Russians
have used. And they're concerned basically with
the world
ocean. Not so much with any particular part of it.
On the other hand, the Australians
have much less effort going into oceanography,
much less emphasis on the operation,
on the continuing operation of big ships, and
more concerned with
their part of the ocean, the waters around
Australia, the waters around Australia. very
much more provincial.
The British and the Germans and the Japanese
have operated much
like we have, but they've had a special interest in
some parts of the ocean. For example, the British
have always had a great interest in the Antarctic,
and the Japanese in areas where they catch fish, or
where they hope they might catch fish. The Germans
in
two areas, fishing North Sea fisheries and the
Indian and the tropical Atlantic. These are
scientific.
The French have, well the French have, you can't
characterize the French very well because there
are several groups. in France, one of them led by
Jacques Cousteau.
One, two, three, testing. One, two, three,
testing.